{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Arial;}{\f1 Courier New;}}
\fs24
\b WABOT-DEV SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENT\b0\par
Defensive Red-Team Review for Internal Analysis\par
\par
\b Document Status:\b0 Internal Use Only\par
\b Date:\b0 April 2026\par
\b Scope:\b0 User data exposure risk, webhook tampering risk, inbound and outbound webhook abuse scenarios, privilege bypass paths, and monitoring requirements.\par
\b Intent:\b0 Defensive analysis only. This document intentionally excludes exploit instructions, weaponization steps, payloads, and operational intrusion guidance.\par
\par
\b 1. Executive Summary\b0\par
This document summarizes realistic threat scenarios that an attacker may attempt against wabot-dev with the goal of exfiltrating user data, altering webhook destinations, intercepting message traffic, or abusing authenticated media access paths. The purpose is to help engineering, security, and operations teams prioritize controls before production use.\par
\par
Primary high-risk themes:\par
\tab 1. Unauthorized modification of webhook destinations leading to silent data diversion.\par
\tab 2. Exposure of message-linked media or metadata through improperly protected file-serving routes.\par
\tab 3. Session misuse or weak authorization boundaries between users, sockets, and account-scoped resources.\par
\tab 4. Abuse of API and media upload flows to inject malicious content, trigger denial of service, or bypass expected validation.\par
\tab 5. Insider or compromised-user misuse of legitimate features to reroute integrations.\par
\par
\b 2. Threat Model Assumptions\b0\par
The following attacker types are considered:\par
\tab A. External unauthenticated attacker probing public HTTP routes.\par
\tab B. Authenticated low-privilege user attempting horizontal privilege escalation.\par
\tab C. User with stolen session cookie or compromised browser.\par
\tab D. Insider with legitimate account access attempting webhook diversion.\par
\tab E. Third party with visibility into webhook receiver infrastructure.\par
\par
Assets at risk:\par
\tab 1. User profile and role data.\par
\tab 2. WhatsApp account metadata and session identifiers.\par
\tab 3. Message content, media files, timestamps, sender identifiers, and group context.\par
\tab 4. Webhook destination URLs and downstream automation trust.\par
\tab 5. API keys and account-scoped configuration.\par
\par
\b 3. High-Risk Abuse Scenarios\b0\par
\b 3.1 Webhook Destination Hijack\b0\par
Description:\par
\tab An attacker who obtains valid user access, abuses broken authorization, or exploits configuration update gaps may change a webhook destination to infrastructure they control. From that point onward, inbound events may be silently copied to the attacker-controlled endpoint.\par
Likely impact:\par
\tab Full passive exfiltration of future event traffic for the affected user or account.\par
\tab Silent integrity loss in downstream automation pipelines.\par
\tab Business data leakage to external infrastructure.\par
Required controls:\par
\tab Strict owner checks on all settings update routes.\par
\tab SSRF defenses for webhook URL validation.\par
\tab Change logging for webhookUrl updates.\par
\tab Optional approval or re-authentication for sensitive endpoint changes.\par
\tab Alerting on webhook destination changes, especially first-time domains.\par
\par
\b 3.2 Authenticated File Access Drift\b0\par
Description:\par
\tab If uploaded or generated files can be fetched without strong account scoping, an attacker with a valid session may attempt enumeration, replay, or cross-user access of file resources.\par
Likely impact:\par
\tab Disclosure of uploaded files or incoming media.\par
\tab Exposure of customer content through predictable identifiers.\par
Required controls:\par
\tab Return 401 on unauthenticated access.\par
\tab Enforce ownership validation before file delivery, not only session presence.\par
\tab Use unguessable filenames and reject path traversal attempts.\par
\tab Minimize retention windows for temporary media.\par
\par
\b 3.3 Socket Event Cross-Tenant Leakage\b0\par
Description:\par
\tab If socket events are broadcast broadly instead of emitted to the owning user only, one user can receive another user's QR code, status changes, or message events.\par
Likely impact:\par
\tab Confidentiality breach of operational state and message activity.\par
\tab Account takeover facilitation if QR events leak.\par
Required controls:\par
\tab Bind sockets to server-side session identity only.\par
\tab Emit account events only to the owning user room or socket set.\par
\tab Monitor unexpected accountId visibility across sessions.\par
\par
\b 3.4 Session Abuse After Authentication\b0\par
Description:\par
\tab If session lifecycle handling is weak, an attacker with a fixation or stolen pre-auth session could inherit a privileged authenticated state after login.\par
Likely impact:\par
\tab Unauthorized dashboard or configuration access.\par
\tab Webhook change and file access abuse.\par
Required controls:\par
\tab Regenerate session after successful authentication.\par
\tab Secure cookies with httpOnly and production secure flags.\par
\tab Detect concurrent anomalous session use when feasible.\par
\par
\b 3.5 Upload Validation Evasion\b0\par
Description:\par
\tab Attackers may disguise executable or malformed files as permitted media types to reach storage, downstream processors, or operator desktops.\par
Likely impact:\par
\tab Malware staging, parser abuse, downstream compromise, or social engineering.\par
Required controls:\par
\tab Magic-byte validation in addition to extension and MIME checks.\par
\tab Private storage outside public web roots.\par
\tab Safe serve route with authorization checks.\par
\tab Anti-malware scanning if feasible in production.\par
\par
\b 4. Webhook-Specific Risks\b0\par
\b 4.1 Data Exfiltration Through Legitimate Integrations\b0\par
Even when route authorization is correct, webhook functionality itself is a controlled exfiltration channel. Any user who can change webhook configuration can redirect valuable event streams. This should be treated as a sensitive action.\par
\par
\b 4.2 SSRF and Internal Service Probing\b0\par
Webhook destinations may be abused to reach internal addresses if validation is incomplete. Blocking localhost, loopback, RFC1918 ranges, and other internal targets is necessary but should also be combined with monitoring, DNS-aware validation where possible, and allowlist options for production.\par
\par
\b 4.3 Retry Amplification and Duplicate Processing\b0\par
Webhook retry logic improves resilience but can also amplify traffic to a malicious or misconfigured endpoint. Downstream systems should be prepared for duplicate deliveries and unusual retry bursts.\par
\par
\b 5. Indicators of Compromise\b0\par
The following signals should be monitored and reviewed:\par
\tab 1. Sudden webhookUrl changes, especially to newly observed domains.\par
\tab 2. Frequent 401 or 400 responses on file routes indicating probing.\par
\tab 3. Repeated attempts to access multiple filenames with pattern variation.\par
\tab 4. Unexpected spikes in webhook delivery failures or retries.\par
\tab 5. User complaints that integrations changed unexpectedly.\par
\tab 6. QR code events appearing when users did not initiate reconnects.\par
\tab 7. Multiple account operations from the same session in short bursts.\par
\par
\b 6. Defensive Recommendations\b0\par
\b Priority 0 - Immediate\b0\par
\tab 1. Log and alert on every webhook destination change.\par
\tab 2. Enforce per-resource ownership checks on file serving routes.\par
\tab 3. Review whether media file access should require both authentication and account ownership.\par
\tab 4. Record audit entries for settings changes, connect/disconnect actions, and account deletion.\par
\par
\b Priority 1 - Near Term\b0\par
\tab 1. Add anomaly detection for repeated file route probing.\par
\tab 2. Add domain allowlisting or approval workflow for webhook destinations in higher-trust deployments.\par
\tab 3. Add structured security logs for webhook delivery attempts and failures.\par
\tab 4. Consider signing webhook payloads so downstream receivers can verify authenticity.\par
\par
\b Priority 2 - Hardening\b0\par
\tab 1. Introduce re-authentication or step-up verification before changing sensitive integration settings.\par
\tab 2. Reduce temporary media lifetime where operationally safe.\par
\tab 3. Add operational dashboards for webhook health and suspicious route access.\par
\tab 4. Consider per-account download tokens if authenticated file access remains high-risk.\par
\par
\b 7. Team Review Questions\b0\par
\tab 1. Should any authenticated user be able to download all of their own media without additional per-account checks?\par
\tab 2. Is webhookUrl modification common enough to remain self-service, or should it trigger approval?\par
\tab 3. Do current logs provide enough evidence to investigate suspected data diversion?\par
\tab 4. Are webhook receivers expected to verify signatures or origin constraints?\par
\tab 5. What retention policy is acceptable for temporary media and failed webhook logs?\par
\par
\b 8. Conclusion\b0\par
The highest realistic abuse path is not necessarily a traditional exploit chain, but misuse of legitimate application capabilities: changing webhook destinations, reading protected files through weak authorization boundaries, and harvesting operational events if socket or session boundaries fail. The most effective defense is therefore not only input validation, but also strong authorization, auditability, and change monitoring around integration features.\par
\par
\b Appendix A - Non-Included Content\b0\par
This report intentionally excludes:\par
\tab 1. Exploit payloads.\par
\tab 2. Command sequences for intrusion.\par
\tab 3. Weaponized test cases that would enable unauthorized access.\par
\tab 4. Procedural guidance for exfiltration or persistence.\par
\par
\b Prepared For:\b0 Engineering, Security, and Operations Review\par
}
